Let's go back to the case that we have a brand new app so I'm going to uninstall this application here
and rebuild it with npm run ios. There
I'll connect my debugger and then reload it and we're not logged in because we have no valid token
and there, what we will be able to see is that once I do log in, we of course reach the next place here
in our app but we also then see that we get this object, we use expiresIn and we use the token,
we also get that strange refresh token. Now unlike the ID token, the refresh token never expires and
we can exchange it with an ID token, with a fresh one, so we can use the refresh token to get a new
ID token
and that sounds like a good fallback for cases where we don't have a valid ID token anymore.
We could check if we do have a refresh token at least
and if we do, we could try to use that to get a new token.
Now for that I'll do two things,
first of all when logging in, I want to store these refresh token so I'll add a news item with ap auth
and now refresh token as an identifier and it is the refresh token which I expect to get as an argument
here.
So let's add refresh token as a third argument to auth store token and let's make sure we pass it,
so here when we execute this, I will send parsed response,
refresh token to that function, so to the auth store token function here. That's just the identifier
we have here, refresh token.
So I'm passing this to this function, I'm storing it in the storage,
now here in auth get token, the refresh token is relevant to us when we try to get a token but we
see it expired or we see well we got no token in the storage,
well maybe we got a refresh storage.
So here where I dispatch auth clear storage, before clearing everything,
I should try to save the day with a refresh token,
so there I can execute async storage, get item and get ap auth refresh token, that identifier we specified
and then chain and
then call and a catch call, catch call, catch method.
Here I can safely reject everything, in the then block however,
I get a new chance of getting a fresh token, here
we get the refresh token we stored and now we can send another http request to get a new token.
I by the way only want to clear everything here in this case, in the error case where I call reject,
there I also call dispatch auth clear storage.
Now here where I get the refresh token, I want to send a new fetch request,
we need to find out which url to target though.
For that let's visit the firebase docs and there, we have a method, exchange a refresh token for an ID
token,
perfect,
that's just what we need.
It's this url we need to send our request to then and then we need to pass the grant type which
should always be a string refresh token and the refresh token and also note that this is not an application
request but a xwww form url encoded one.
So I'll first of all paste in this url and we will need the API key here,
now we do have the API key here,
I will pull it out of this function and create some global constant in this file here,
I'll write it
all uppercase to make it really clear that this is basically a global function of this key, of this file,
API key,
now since I change the casing and the way we write it let's replace it here
and now we can use that API key down there too.
So let's simply add it here,
the API key,
now we need to send some additional data or configure this request,
the method will be post.
We need to set some headers because the content type will be the one we see here in the docs,
application xwww form url encoded, so set it up like this.
Now we also need to add a body here and that body is a string where we have to have this grant type,
that's the first property we have to set and that should be a string value of refresh token and then
the refresh token which should be the refresh token,
so grant type will be refresh token and then we have refresh token which should be the refresh token
we got,
so here, the refresh token we have here. With that, return this fetch call here, chain a then call where we get the
response which we can log to the console to see if it works
and then we get this catch block anyways.
Now one thing I want to do to test this is I'll comment out async storage set expiry date so that we can
get into a case where we have a refresh token stored but have no expiry date,
so that we make it into this part, so that we don't have to wait for that hour essentially.
With that, I will uninstall the application and rebuild and reinstall it to clear my async storage,
so let me rerun npm run ios, let's connect this to the debugger
and now let's log in and this should work fine because there, we won't touch the functionality
but now if I reload, let's see, now I got a response here, status is 400 though,
invalid grant type, yeah,
I added single quotation marks here which I shouldn't, should just be refresh token like this.
So now if we uninstall this,
try this one more time,
let's first of all connect to the debugger again,
let's then log in so that the token and refresh token gets stored, let's reload and now we get a 200
response, that looks good,
in which we get an access token, a new expiresIn field, a new refresh token
and if we scroll further to the right, a new ID token.
So indeed we got new data here,
so let's simply not log the response here but use a response.json instead,
then we get back our parsed response and there, I essentially now want to again check if we do have a
token.
So if parsed response has this ID_token field, that is how it's named here, then we can continue,
else
I simply want to dispatch my clear storage command because now I really have no chance of continuing,
can remove that catch block here,
we checked what's wrong there anyway because we weren't inside that promise function anymore
but here dispatch can now be called, we can clear the storage because now we try to get a new token with
the refresh token, we just didn't succeed and always note we only reach this if we had an error
before.
So now here, we do have our new token, so refresh token worked and we can now use this ID token to
store it,
so I'll comment in this async storage set item expiry date thing here and essentially, I now want to
trigger auth store token because I got the token expiresIn refresh token, all of that is received
by that response
and then here, I want to dispatch auth store token to store my parsed response and there it's ID underscore
token parsed response expires underscore in and parsed response
refresh underscore token. So to store all that new data,
here I restructure this,
I want to store all that new data in the store again.
And now I'll go up and change expiresIn here when I store the expiry date to 22 simulates 20 seconds
just to see if it works
because now we should have the effect that for 20 seconds, it works fine, then our token will expire but
it should fetch a new one and therefore should still work fine.
Now let's try if that's the case,
for that I will uninstall my application here
and then rerun npm run ios to rebuild ios,
now let's connect the debugger
and let's log in here
and now we should be able to log in, find places, I got none,
I deleted them all but if I reload, it still should work, if I kill the app and load it like this which
is essentially the same process,
it still works, now after 20 seconds once they are over, reloading the app should touch still work I guess,
so let's try this.
No, we end up on this screen but we see refresh token worked down there,
so we actually got into the place where we successfully use the refresh token here.
Now the problem here is that we dispatch auth store token, so we store a new token so the next time we
reload,
we actually do get redirected again
but at that very request that failed,
so where we had the situation of not having a valid token, we just forget one crucial thing,
we don't try to auto sign in thereafter, we just store our token and we don't need to dispatch auto
sign in because we're still in auth get token here,
it's a long action creator but still we are in there,
so instead what we need to do is we just need to make sure that auth get token returns a token.
So in this case where we store our new token, storing it isn't enough,
we also simply should besides dispatching this action, return our fetched tokens, so parsed response ID
token, return it here so that we don't just store it for the future but that we can immediately use it.
Now with that, it still would have one flaw,
if we return the ID token here, that's nice
but here in the else block where we dispatch auth clear storage, this essentially also doesn't throw
an error, so in the end we will always go into this then block even if we got no token
because again this will not throw an error
so we don't get into this catch block, that's just how promises work.
Additionally returning promise here after this isn't correct,
we should return this whole block
and now here, I can chain another then call here after this catch block which will always be executed
therefore, so after this catch block
here, I'll add another
then block and in there, I potentially get the token and I'll
just check if we don't have a token here,
if we don't, then I will throw a new error,
hence ensuring that we make it into this catch block
otherwise I will return the token, so that's some in-between step to make sure that we don't run into
any messy situation.
Now one additional thing, to ensure that this then call gets called, I need to return async storage get
item here in the catch block so that I return this promise chain,
so that this then block doesn't run before this inner promise chain is done. With that let's uninstall
this app one more time and rebuild it and reinstall it,
now keep in mind expiry date is still set to 20 seconds to see if this behaves as it should.
So let's first of all attach the debugger
and let's submit this
and of course this works and we can close this, interesting is what happens after 20 seconds though
and to me, it now always seems to work.
So this now looks as it should look, it works as it should work,
let's also try this on Android, so I will uninstall my Android app too to clear all the storage I might
have there and rerun npm run Android
and now let's try this here. Let's log in,
this of course works, let's now close this process here and let's reload it and we are logged in
automatically and now I'll manually reload
and here too, I assume that 20 seconds should have been gone by, should have gone by by now
and still it looks like we successfully log in every time I reload.
So this is working, with that
let's go back and switch this back to use the original expiresIn timing and not the 20 seconds.
And now with that let's continue, we did a lot of work here but now we got a workflow or an authentication
flow that really is flexible and keeps the user authenticated
if you want that.
Now let's also make sure that if the user wants, he can log out with the sign out button here.